Ethiopia, the second most populous country in Africa and one which has seen a booming economy recently, has been shaken up in the past week. First Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn unexpectedly resigned after five years in power. Then a national state of emergency was declared the next day. A statement by the state broadcaster said the move was necessary to stem a wave of anti-government protests. Hundreds of people have died in three years of unrest, and this is the second time since 2016 that a state of emergency has been declared. The government also retains the freedom to shut down the media and impose a public curfew, details of which have not been released. Under the conditions of the state of emergency, any person shutting down businesses or public services will face court action. The government gave three key reasons: However, some analysts say the order lacks legal basis and that claims about instability are not true. Instead they view the state of emergency as a warning to those who might try and cause trouble when a new prime minister is appointed. Local activists are worried that another government measure might be aimed at further quelling dissent. In January, officials released more than 3,000 political activists and journalists from prison including opposition leaders Bekele Gerba, Merera Gudina and Andualem Arage. Activists say that the government might be releasing prisoners now to make space for others later. But the authorities say the pardons are part of a move to create a national consensus and widen democratic participation. The state of emergency, opponents say, contradicts that. For most people across Ethiopia, life is continuing as before.  In the capital Addis Ababa, shops are open and people are going about their business as usual. But in some areas of Amhara state, people are defying the authorities by closing their businesses and halting transport services. The government reportedly responded by forcing residents to reopen their shops. Similar disobedience has occurred in Oromia where large crowds have gathered to welcome the released prisoners. In some cases, the crowds have chanted slogans against the ruling party, but have not faced reprisals. The governing coalition, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), is extremely secretive and it is hard to know exactly what is going on. But since coming to power, some in the political elite have accused Mr Hailemariam of being weak and lacking in leadership. His resignation could be a move by the governing coalition to find a stronger leader, or it could signal divisions among the constituent parties along ethnic lines. Particularly visible is the tension between the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front (TPLF), which has seen its dominance and influence wane, and the Oromo People's Democratic Organisation (OPDO), which is becoming increasingly assertive. Replacing Mr Hailemariam with someone from the Oromo community might also be one way to meet the demands of Oromo protesters who have accused the authorities of marginalising them. Ethiopia has never had an Oromo prime minister, even though they are the country's largest ethnic group. Source: CIA World Factbook estimates from 2007 Lemmy Megersa, regional state president of Oromia and head of the OPDO, is among those hoping to become prime minister. Other contenders include Debretsiyon Gebremikael of the TPLF, Demeke Makonnin from the Amhara National Democratic Movement and Werkineh Gebeyehu and Abiyi Ahimed of the OPDO. All three parties are members of the governing EPRDF coalition. A number of grievances have driven popular protests throughout Ethiopia over the last three years: More about Ethiopia: Key facts, figures and dates Energy from rubbish to power Addis Ababa Can Ethiopia be Africa's leading manufacturing hub? You can now get the latest BBC news in Afaan Oromo, Amharic and Tigrinya.