Morocco has decided to scrap winter time and will instead keep its clocks at summer time, GMT+1, all year around. The announcement comes less than two days before the clocks would have gone back by one hour on Sunday. Avoiding the switch would save "an hour of natural light", Administrative Reform Minister Mohammed Ben Abdelkader told Maghreb Arabe Press. The north African nation joins a number of others, mainly in Africa and Asia, which do not use daylight saving. Reaction to the change has been mixed on social media, with one person calling the last-minute decision Kafkaesque: GMT GMT+1 c’est usant à la longue. Que dire d’une décision prise à la veille du retour prévu à l’heure GMT. Franchement, le Maroc et les marocains méritent mieux qu un gouvernement aussi kafkaïen 😩 End of Twitter post  by @KAMALMOUMNY Another questioned how it would affect activities during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan: La question que je pose maintenant pour mon cher pays:COMMENT ON VA FAIRE POUR LE RAMADAN?D’après ma petite personne je sais que les gens retourne à leur heure normal et annule l'heure d'été et pas le contraire, Mon cher MAROC que j'aime chaque jour tu me surprends#قهرتونا End of Twitter post  by @i_elkhabir Others welcomed the decision, like this commentator in Algeria who joked his newly aligned Moroccan neighbours would also be closer to Algerian culture including its square pizzas: Le #Maroc décide de garder la même heure que l'#Algérie (GMT+1) pendant toute l'année ..... Hallelujah les marocains ne rateront plus rien de nous et seront toujours à temps avec nous ainsi avec nos pizza carré. End of Twitter post  by @Inal_2715 And this social media user is simply relieved that Morocco will remain at "tea time" time throughout the year: Le Maroc restera à l'heure des thés.🤗 https://t.co/0kvFjdsvXF End of Twitter post  by @eunileraanue While many people around the world enjoy the extra hour in bed that comes as clocks go bank one hour for winter time, there have been prominent campaigns to abolish it. One UK campaign group even says staying at summer time all year-round would reduce traffic accidents, because road users would be able to see better in the evenings. The European Union said in August that it would recommend that its member countries scrap the twice-yearly clock change.